In this video, we're going to continue
with our view order history development.
All right, so we have the Spring Boot back end developed,
now let's go ahead and focus on the Angular front end.
So just as a refresher, we going to have a button
over in the top right for orders
and then we'll display the orders in the UI.
So we have all the data coming from the REST API,
let's go ahead and focus
on doing the Angular UI development.
Here's our development process.
So the first thing we're going to do
is keep track of a logged in user's email
with the web browser storage,
then we'll create an OrderHistory class.
Next, we'll develop the OrderHistory service.
We'll generate an order-history component
and then we'll update the template text in the HTML page.
Next we'll add the Orders button
to the login-status component
and then finally, we'll define a protected route
for the order-history component.
All right, step one of keeping track
of the logged in user's email with web browser storage.
So we know that we'll need to retrieve
the orders by the user's email address,
once they log in, let's go ahead and keep track
of the user's email address
and we'll store the email address
in the web browser storage.
So then other Angular components in our application
can retrieve it at a later time.
We'll make use of the web browser session storage,
so the data will only be available
during the current web browser session.
Okay, so here's the coding here
for keeping track of a user's email
with web browser storage.
We'll add an entry here to get a reference
to the web browser's session storage.
Down in the getUserDetails method,
this is where we check to see if the user's authenticated.
If they are authenticated, then we'll go ahead
and get some additional information about the user,
in particular, we want to store the user's email
in the web browser's session storage.
So what we do here,
is we retrieve the user's email
from the authentication response,
so I simply say theEmail = res.email.
Then I'll store the email in the browser storage.
Here I'll make use of storage.setItem,
I give the key the of userEmail and the value of theEmail.
And we've seen coding like this before
for storing and retrieving data in the browser storage.
Alrighty, so let's store it there and we can later on,
we'll use it in some other Angular components
to retrieve it.
Now, let's move ahead to step two
of creating the OrderHistory class.
We'll make use of the Angular CLI
for ng generate class common/OrderHistory
and it gives a basic stub class
and it will add these five fields to the class.
So I'll have a field here for ID,
the order tracking number,
total price, total quantity, date created.
So eventually we'll be able to use this information
in our UI components for actually displaying
the appropriate data for the orders.
In step three, we'll develop the OrderHistory service.
Again, we'll make use of the Angular CLI
ng generate service services/OrderHistory.
And then we can move into the coding here for this class.
The first we'll do, is we'll set up
the orderURL /api/orders.
We'll set up our constructor, we'll inject the httpClient.
We'll create this method here,
getOrderHistory, they'll pass in an email address.
So we need to build the URL based on the customer email,
so we simply call
the orderHistoryUrl/search/findByCustomerEmail?email=
and we use whatever value they pass in to this method.
And then we'll do a return on httpClient.get
and then we pass in the OrderHistoryUrl.
So this effectively calls the REST API.
GetResponseOrderHistory is simply an interface
that we'll define and we'll use this to access the JSON
that's sent back from Spring Data REST,
in particular, we can access the _embedded entry.
In step four, we'll generate the order-history component.
Make use of ng generate component components/OrderHistory.
And moving in here to the coding for this class,
I'll set up an array, orderHistory,
so I'll call it orderHistoryList.
Initialize that as an empty list.
I set up a reference here
to the web browser's session storage.
In my constructor, I'll inject the OrderHistoryService
that we just created on the previous slides.
In my ngOnInit method, I'll simply call handleOrderHistory.
I'll go ahead and define this method here.
First thing I'll do, is I'll read the user's email address
from the browser's storage.
So I use storage.getItem.
Give the key of userEmail.
And then I retrieve the data from the service,
so I say orderHistoryService.getOrderHistory,
the email.subscribe.
Once I get the data back,
then I assign the data accordingly.
So I have this.orderHistoryList = data_embedded.orders.
In step five, we're going to update the template text
in the HTML page.
So again, we're going to have this nice,
little pretty table here for orders and list each order.
So in our HTML component here, we'll set up a header,
h3 for orders.
We check to make sure the OrderHistory.length
is greater than zero.
Make sure we have things to display.
Then I set up the table headers here
for order tracking number, total price,
total quantity and date.
And now I simply need to loop over
the orderHistoryList.
So let tempOrderHistory of orderHistoryList
and remember, orderHistoryList is defined
as a field in our class
and then we can loop over it and display that data.
So I simply go through and set up TD's here
for the order tracking number,
total price, I pipe it through the currency pipe,
total quantity and then also, date created
and I just loop over that
and do it for each one of those orderHistory items.
And then notice here for date created,
I make use of a date pipe,
so I set the date format to medium.
There are other date formats you can use,
like short, medium, long, full.
You can get the full list
at the link I have here on the screen.
All right, so we're almost done here.
Step six of adding the orders button
to the login-status component.
So we've done a lot of this work before,
we're simply going to add a new entry here
for our orders button.
So I'll make sure that the user's authenticated,
I set up the router link to order-history
and then the class and then the actual label
for the button is orders
and then we'll get the appropriate layout here in our UI
for this setup.
And then finally, finally, finally,
step seven, we simply define a protected route
for the order-history component.
So we want to make sure that it's only available
for people that are logged in.
So we set up a path,
order-history, component: OrderHistoryComponent
and then canActivate: [OktaAuthGuard].
So this is in place to make sure
that the user doesn't try and access the route directly
without being logged in.
Okta will kick in and guard this given route.
Alrighty, so this all looks pretty good.
I'm getting really excited here,
so let's go ahead and move into the next videos
and let's start writing some code.